Audited Alchemy's Tutorial (#979)
maticnetwork/matic-docs: docs/develop/alchemy.md

image: https://matic.network/banners/matic-network-16x9.png 
---

> # Create a Smart Contract using Alchemy

Reviewer: lets make this the title in the metadata and remove from here

> This guide is for developers who are either new to blockchain development or want to understand how to deploy and interact with smart contracts. It will walk through creating and deploying a smart contract on the Polygon Mumbai test network using a virtual wallet ([Metamask](https://metamask.io)), [Solidity](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.0/), [Hardhat](https://hardhat.org), and [Alchemy](https://alchemy.com/?a=polygon-docs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial is for developers who are either new to Ethereum blockchain development or want to understand the fundamentals of deploying and interacting with smart contracts. It will walk through creating and deploying a smart contract on the Polygon Mumbai test network using a virtual wallet ([Metamask](https://metamask.io)), [Solidity](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.0/), [Hardhat](https://hardhat.org), and [Alchemy](https://alchemy.com/?a=polygon-docs).
```

Reviewer: Here, it can be a summary of what will happen end-to-end while introducing the tools throughout, such as: "You will start by ...., then ....finally..."

:::note

> If you have questions at any point, you may contact the [Alchemy Discord Channel (https://discord.gg/gWuC7zB)](https://discord.gg/gWuC7zB).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have questions or concerns, please reach out to the [official Alchemy Discord] (https://discord.gg/gWuC7zB)](https://discord.gg/gWuC7zB).
```

:::

## Create and Deploy your Smart Contract using Hardhat

### Step 1: Connect to the Polygon network

> There are many ways to make requests to the Polygon chain. For simplicity, we’ll use a free account on Alchemy, **a blockchain developer platform and API that allows us to communicate with the Polygon chain without having to run our own nodes**. The platform also has developer tools for monitoring and analytics that we’ll take advantage of in this tutorial to understand what’s going on under the hood in our smart contract deployment. If you don’t already have an Alchemy account, [you can sign up for free here](https://alchemy.com/?a=polygon-docs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several ways to make requests to the Polygon PoS chain. Rather than running your own node, you will use a free account on Alchemy's developer platform and interact with the Alchemy Polygon PoS API to communicate with the Polygon PoS chain. The platform includes developer tooling to monitor requests and data analytics that demonstrate what happens under the hood during smart contract deployment. If you don’t already have an Alchemy account, start by signing up for free [here](https://alchemy.com/?a=polygon-docs).
```

### Step 2: Create your app (and API key)

> Once you’ve created an Alchemy account, you can generate an API key by creating an app. This will allow us to make requests to the Polygon Mumbai test network. If you’re not familiar with testnets, check out [this guide](https://docs.alchemyapi.io/guides/choosing-a-network).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successfully creating an Alchemy account, you will need to generate an API key by creating an app. This authenticates the requests made to the Polygon Mumbai testnet. 
> If you’re not familiar with testnets, check out [this testnet guide](https://docs.alchemyapi.io/guides/choosing-a-network).

To generate a new API key, navigate to the "Apps" tab on the Alchemy dashboard navigation bar and select the "Create App" sub-tab.
```

> Navigate to the “Create App” page in your Alchemy Dashboard by hovering over “Apps” in the nav bar and clicking “Create App”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Name your app “Hello World”, offer a short description, click "Polygon" for the Chain, and choose “Polygon Mumbai” for your network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Name your new app “Hello World”, offer a short description, select "Polygon" for the chain, and choose “Polygon Mumbai” for your network.
```

> Click “Create app” and that’s it! Your app should appear in the table below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, click on “Create app”. Your new app should appear in the table below.
```

:::note

> After you create your account, Alchemy lets you start creating your first app before actually reaching the dashboard. You can start from there or go ahead and skip it.  

Reviewer: ```tip
After creating your account, you have the option of immediately creating your first app before reaching the dashboard.
```

Reviewer: should move this before the dashboard-based steps on creating a new app

:::

### Step 3: Create a wallet address

> Since Polygon is a Layer-2 scaling solution for Ethereum, we need to get an Ethereum wallet and add a custom Polygon URL to send and receive transactions on the Polygon network. For this tutorial, we’ll use Metamask, a virtual wallet in the browser used to manage your wallet address. If you want to understand more about how transactions on Ethereum work, check out [this page](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/transactions/) from the Ethereum foundation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Polygon PoS is a layer 2 scaling solution for Ethereum, we need to get an Ethereum wallet and add a custom Polygon URL to send and receive transactions on the Polygon Mumbai testnet. For this tutorial, we will use MetaMask, a browser-compatible digital wallet used to manage your wallet address. If you want to understand more about how transactions on Ethereum work, check out [this transactions guide](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/transactions/) by the Ethereum Foundation.
```

image: https://matic.network/banners/matic-network-16x9.png 
---

## Overview

This tutorial is for developers who are either new to Ethereum blockchain development or want to understand the fundamentals of deploying and interacting with smart contracts. It will walk through creating and deploying a smart contract on the Polygon Mumbai test network using a virtual wallet ([Metamask](https://metamask.io)), [Solidity](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.0/), [Hardhat](https://hardhat.org), and [Alchemy](https://alchemy.com/?a=polygon-docs).

:::note

If you have questions or concerns, please reach out to the [<ins>official Alchemy Discord</ins>](https://discord.gg/gWuC7zB).

:::

## What you will learn

> To create a smart contract in this tutorial, you will learn how to use Alchemy's platform to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To create a smart contract in this tutorial, you will learn how to use Alchemy's platform to:
```

> - create a smart contract application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a smart contract application.
```

> - check the wallet's balance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check a wallet's balance.
```

> - verify calls in the explorer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Verify contract calls in an explorer. 
```

## What you will do

> Following the tutorial, you will:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Following the tutorial, you will:
```

### Step 4: Add Polygon Mumbai Test MATIC from a Faucet

> In order to deploy our smart contract to the test network, we’ll need some fake MATIC. To get MATIC, you can go to the [Polygon Mumbai Faucet](https://faucet.polygon.technology/), select "Mumbai", choose "MATIC Token", and enter your Polygon wallet address, then click “Submit.” It may take some time to receive your fake ether due to network traffic. (At the time of writing this, it took around 30 minutes.) You should see ether in your Metamask account soon after.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to deploy your smart contract to the test network, you need to obtain a few testnet tokens. To get testnet tokens, visit the [Polygon Mumbai Faucet](https://faucet.polygon.technology/), select "Mumbai", choose "MATIC Token", and enter your Polygon wallet address, then click “Submit.” It may take some time to receive your testnet tokens due to network traffic. 
> At the time of writing, it took around 30 minutes.
You will see the testnet tokens in your MetaMask account soon after.
```

### Step 4: Add Polygon Mumbai Test MATIC from a Faucet

In order to deploy your smart contract to the test network, you need to obtain a few testnet tokens. To get testnet tokens, visit the [Polygon Mumbai Faucet](https://faucet.polygon.technology/), select "Mumbai", choose "MATIC Token", and enter your Polygon wallet address, then click “Submit.” It may take some time to receive your testnet tokens due to network traffic. 
> At the time of writing, it took around 30 minutes.

> You will see the testnet tokens in your MetaMask account soon after.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You will see the testnet tokens in your MetaMask account soon after.
```

{ "jsonrpc": "2.0", "id": 0, "result": "0xde0b6b3a7640000" }
```

:::note 

> This result is in wei not eth. Wei is used as the smallest denomination of ether. The conversion from wei to ether is: 1 ether= 10^18 wei. So if we convert 0xde0b6b3a7640000 to decimal we get 1\*10^18 which equals 1 eth, which can be mapped to 1 MATIC based on denomination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This result is in Wei, not ETH. Wei is used as the smallest denomination of Ether. The conversion from Wei to Ether is: 1 Ether = 10^18 Wei. So, if we convert "0xde0b6b3a7640000" to decimal, we get 1\*10^18, which equals 1 ETH. This can be mapped to 1 MATIC based on denomination.
```

    
    #### Block Explorer URL: https://mumbai.polygonscan.com/

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Step 10: Write our contract

> Open up the hello-world project in your favorite editor, such as [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com). Smart contracts are written in a language called Solidity which is what we will use to write our HelloWorld.sol smart contract.‌

Reviewer: if explaining at this level, should mention basics of solidity, developer environment, ".sol" extension, etc.

Do not name it `process.env` or `.env-custom` or anything else.

> :::caution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning
```

If you are using a version control system like git to manage your project, please DO NOT track the .env file. Add .env to your .gitignore file to avoid publishing secret data.

:::

* Follow [these instructions](https://metamask.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360015289632-How-to-Export-an-Account-Private-Key) to export your private key

> * To get your Alchemy HTTP API Key (RPC URL), go to your "Hello World" app in your Alchemy dashboard and click "View Key" in the top right corner. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To get your Alchemy HTTP API key (RPC URL), navigate to your "Hello World" app on your account's dashboard and click "View Key" in the top right corner. 
```

Ethers.js is a library that makes it easier to interact and make requests to Ethereum by wrapping [standard JSON-RPC methods](https://docs.alchemyapi.io/alchemy/documentation/alchemy-api-reference/json-rpc) with more user friendly methods.

> Hardhat makes it easy to integrate [Plugins](https://hardhat.org/plugins/) for additional tooling and extended functionality. We’ll be taking advantage of the [Ethers plugin](https://hardhat.org/plugins/nomiclabs-hardhat-ethers.html) for contract deployment. [Ethers.js](https://github.com/ethers-io/ethers.js/) has useful contract deployment methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hardhat makes it easy to integrate [plugins](https://hardhat.org/plugins/) for additional tooling and extended functionality. We’ll be taking advantage of the [Ethers plugin](https://hardhat.org/plugins/nomiclabs-hardhat-ethers.html) for contract deployment. [Ethers.js](https://github.com/ethers-io/ethers.js/) has useful contract deployment methods.
```

**Congratulations! You just deployed a smart contract to the Polygon chain.**

> ### Step 17: Veriffy our contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 17: Verify the contract
```

> Alchemy provides an explorer where you can find information about the methods deployed along with the smart contract, such as response time, HTTP status, error codes and others. It is a good environment to verify your contract and check whether the transactions went through. 

Reviewer: Doesn't flow well with the content afterwards and would link the explorer

Author: I see. What would you suggest then?
The explorer is linked in the next paragraph...
